MAP-T/MAP-E Module Installation And Usage Manual

Notice: This code package currently supports the translation 
of TCP, UDP and ICMP Query packets with two working modes: CE, 
CE with NAT44. Anyone may contribute to add more 
functionalities to this code under the license of GPL.

Part I: building binaries from source

To build the source codes, follow the steps below:

1) Enter './modules/' directory;
2) Run 'make' command to build kernel modules;
3) Switch to './utils/' directory;
4) Run 'make' command to build 'ivictl' command line utility;

Part II: install & remove the module

Currently the MAP-T/MAP-E module does not need special installation steps. It 
is suggested that you directly start the module using shell scripts located in 
'./scripts/' directory. Those scripts will install and start the module 
automatically. You may copy or move those scripts to other locations but pay 
attention to the relative directory references in the scripts. 

The module installation is actually performed by the script command 'control 
start', which will call 'insmod' to insert the kernel module 'ivi.ko' and then 
call 'mknod' to create a charactor device interface in '/dev' directory for 
IOCTL purpose.

The module is removed by the script command 'control stop', which will call 
'rmmod' to remove the kernel module 'ivi.ko' and then call 'rm' to remove the 
charactor device interface from the '/dev' directory.

The module start and stop is performed by calling 'ivictl' command. See Part 
III for the usage of 'ivictl' tool.


Part III: 'ivictl' usage

The MAP-T/MAP-E functionality is controlled via 'ivictl' utility. This command 
line tool allows you to configure mapping rules (through 'ivictl -r ...' 
command), start (through 'ivictl -s ...' command) or stop (through 'ivictl -q' 
command) packet translation. You can also view the usage instructions through 
'ivictl -h' command.

1) Configure mapping rule

To configure a mapping rule, the following options are used:

-p: specify the IPv4 rule prefix and prefix length in the form of 'a.b.c.d/l'
-d: specify the default mapping rule, either '-p' or '-d' must be specified
-P: specify the corresponding IPv6 rule prefix and prefix length in the form of 
    'a:b:c:d::/l', must be specified
-z: specify the psid offset, default value is 6.
-R: specify the associated IPv4 address sharing ratio R used in GMA, default 
    value is 1
-T  translation(MAP-T) 
-E  encapsulation(MAP-E)

For example, a mapping rule '1.1.1.0/24 -> 2001:da8:abc::/48, R = 16, PSID offset = 4' is 
configured via:

ivictl -r -p 1.1.1.0/24 -P 2001:da8:abc::/48 -z 4 -R 16 -T


2) Start packet translation

The MAP module support two working mode: CE mode and CE 
with NAT44 mode, both for translation and encpasulation

To start the module in BR mode, the following options are used:

-i: specify the name of the Ethernet device connected to IPv4 world
-I: specify the name of the Ethernet device connected to IPv6 world

Remember that you MUST configure correct mapping rules before starting BR mode. 
At least two mapping rules (the DMR and the BMR) are necessary.


To start the module in CE mode, the following options are required:

-i: specify the name of the Ethernet device connected to IPv4 world
-I: specify the name of the Ethernet device connected to IPv6 world
-H: specify that we are in HGW mode
-a: specify the IPv4 address and mask of the host behind the CE device, in the 
    form of 'a.b.c.d/l'
-P: specify the IPv6 rule prefix and prefix length of the host behind the CE 
    device, in the form of 'a:b:c:d::/l'
-R: specify the associated IPv4 address sharing ratio R of the host behind the 
    CE device
-z: specify the psid offset
-o: specify the PSID of the host behind the CE device
-T  translation (MAP-T)
-E  encapsulation (MAP-E)


Remember that you MUST configure the DMR before starting CE mode.


To start the module in CE with NAT44 mode, the additional necessary options are 
as follows:

-A: specify the public IPv4 address and mask which the host behind the CE 
    device is mapped into. In this case, the '-a' option will specify the 
    private IPv4 network and prefix length
-N: specify that we are in NAT44 mode


'./scripts/' directory contains real configuration examples for these working 
modes.

3) Stop packet translation

This is easy. Simply run 'ivictl -q' command.


If you have any question regarding the usage of the source code and the MAP-T/MAP-E
module, feel free to contact the authors via email.

